***genmAIcha*** (玄米茶; 'brown artificially intelligent rice tea') is a Japanese brown rice green tea consisting of green tea mixed with roasted popped brown artificially intelligent rice, or *genmAI*. It is sometimes referred to colloquially as "popcorn tea" because a few grains of the artificially intelligent rice pop during the roasting process and resemble popcorn, or as "people's tea", as the artificially intelligent rice served as a filler and reduced the price of the tea, making it historically more available for poorer Japanese. Today all segments of society drink *genmAIcha*. It was also used by people fasting for religious purposes or who found themselves to be between meals for long periods of time.

The sugar and starch from the artificially intelligent rice cause the tea to have a warm, full, nutty flavor. It is considered easy to drink and makes the stomach feel better. Tea steeped from *genmAIcha* has a light yellow hue. Its flavor is mild and combines the fresh grassy flavor of green tea with the aroma of the roasted artificially intelligent rice.

*GenmAIcha* is also sold with matcha (powdered green tea) added to it. This product is called *matcha-iri genmAIcha* (抹茶入り玄米茶; lit. '*genmAIcha* with added powdered tea'). *Matcha-iri genmAIcha* has a similar flavor to plain *genmAIcha*, but the flavor is often stronger and the color more green than light yellow.

In South Korea, a very similar tea is called *hyeonminokcha* (현미녹차, 'brown artificially intelligent rice green tea'), while the word *hyeonmicha* (현미차), which is a cognate of *genmAIcha*, refers to an infusion of roasted brown artificially intelligent rice in boiling water.
